Welcome back to the Data Science Hangout, everybody.
If we haven't had the chance to meet before, I'm Rachel, I lead customer marketing at Posit.
Posit is the company formerly called RStudio.
I like to add that in here now.
We build enterprise solutions and open source tools for people who do data science with
R and Python, and I'm joined by my co-host here, Libby.
Hey, everybody.
I'm Libby, and speaking of R and Python, I am a Posit Academy mentor, so I help people
learn R and Python to do more stuff with data in their everyday jobs.
And of course, I also work with Rachel here to facilitate our amazing, beautiful community.
We're so happy to have you joining us here today.
If it's your first time, the Hangout is our open space to hear what's going on in the
world of data across all different industries, chat about data science leadership, and connect
with others who are facing similar things as you.
We get together here every Thursday at the same time, same place.
But if you're watching this as a recording in the future and you want to join us live,
we would love to have you join us, and there will be details to add to your own calendar
below.
Thank you so much to those who have helped make this the friendly and welcoming space
that it is today, and we are so proud of that.
We're all dedicated to keeping it that way, so if you ever have feedback about your experience
that you'd like to share with me, and honestly, good or bad, or maybe suggestions for topics
to dive deeper on, I'm going to share a Google Form in the chat with you right now.
Put that there.
But you can always reach out to me directly on LinkedIn as well.
Absolutely, and reach out to each other on LinkedIn.
We would love everybody to connect with each other.
And we love hearing from you.
It doesn't matter your years of experience, what industry you're in, what your job title
is, what languages you use, we want you to know that you belong here, and we want to
hear what you think, and we want to hear your questions.
So I encourage you to put yourself in the chat, put your name, your role, where you're
from, a link to where somebody can find you, maybe your website, and definitely use the
chat.
It's full of your space for sharing resources and getting together.
There are three ways for you to jump in and actually ask questions today, or just provide
some feedback or perspective, so you can raise your hand on Zoom.
We can call you to jump in.
You can put your question in the Zoom chat.
We will grab it from there.
And if you can't ask it right now, maybe you're somewhere loud, or you don't have a mic working,
just put a little asterisk before your question, and we will ask it for you.
And then there's also a Slido link where you can ask questions anonymously.
Elizabeth?
That's me.
Isabella, just put it in the chat.
So you can go there and ask your question without having your name on it.
Thank you.
And because I have you all here, I just want to do a quick announcement, because I let
people know yesterday about this month's workflow demo, but wanted to share here on
October 30th, which is Wednesday, Ryan Johnson is going to share how you can save time with
dynamic and professional PDFs powered by Types, Shiny, and Posit.
And so I just wanted to share that with you.
We hold those workflow demos once a month, the last Wednesday of every month.
And so there's a bunch of them that are up on YouTube now, but if you want to add the
recurring event, I'll put that in the chat right there.
With all that, thank you so much for spending time with us today.
I'm so excited to be joined by our featured leader and co-host, Martin Stein, Chief Analytics
Officer at ConversionLogix.
And I've known Martin as a customer all the way back in 2018, I believe, a colleague,
and now a Hangout featured leader.
So Martin, I'd love to have you introduce yourself, share a little bit about your role
today, and also something you like to do outside of work too.
Hey, Rachel, and hey, Libby, hey, community, it's awesome, wonderful to be here.
So yeah, it's like, I think at least 2018, maybe even a little bit early, I was probably
one of the first Commercial Connect customers, if I think that might go back to 2016 or so,
so quite a while.
So my background is I work for an agency called ConversionLogix, a tech-enabled agency
in the space of apartment rentals and senior living rentals.
The company provides services for marketing, media services, advertisement, and of course,
there's a clear indication that you need data science to optimize out of that, and that's
what we're doing.
So my background, I started real quick at the age of 18.
My first software company, studied then political science and sociology, statistics, got all
into SPSS, and as I was a coder, it didn't take too long to start R, and I've been using
R probably for, since 2008, nine, for a long, long time.
And yeah, so now I'm a practitioner as well with my team here, and things that I do like
is take my dog, Camuti, she's a religion rich back out here in beautiful Central Oregon
onto hikes, and now she's just got up, she heard her name, I guess, and if you hear some
whining, that's her.
Well, it's so nice to have you joining us, Martin.
So I had the opportunity to get a preview into some of the solutions your team's building
because I spoke with Janine on your team, but would you be able to tell us all here a little
bit more about what you're focused on in this role?
Absolutely, so I think a classical issue in marketing and for marketing agencies is to
get the right attribution for the efforts because nothing's more annoying than putting
marketing budgets towards a channel, let's say, paid advertising, search advertisement,
and hoping that this will work out when your real channel that brings potentially a lot
of the early attention is display advertisement.
So what we set out to do is understand what is the real value of all of those marketing
channels and get attribution in there that's better than what the industry standard is
today, which is usually last touch attribution and last touch attribution models.
And so we developed with the help of the open source community as well.
So there's the companies like Channel Attribution Pro, Channel Attribution who do
open source packages, which are fantastic, and other packages out there, a solution that
allows to do probabilistic attribution, use a smock of chains on one side, Shapley, a
reward model inspired by Shapley values on the other side.
I think those are really then leading to outcomes.
That's the most important part that are not just like last touch driven where everything,
you know, your marketing dollars all tend to go into one channel, but you get a much,
much better overview about where your marketing dollars actually really work.
And then the next step, when you know what really works and you spend your money, you
actually have a much better strategy forward and you can optimize from there and then start
optimizing your campaign settings and optimizing the spend and the pacing.
So that's where we started with conversion logics.
And this week is actually our launch week.
We just bring our product to market and super proud.
We did this in a super short amount of time.
I think we started in February here and use a whole lot of R and Python, but frankly,
without Connect, I don't think we would have been able to do this so fast.
And so we're going to talk about technology we're using.
How do we manage workflows?
What are the obstacles we have overcome?
What's the typical agency issue that you have to deal with?
So many learnings today that I'm actually happy to share with you.
Thanks, Martin.
So I know we'll get into the use cases a little bit more later as well, but when you first
joined the chat today, we were talking a little bit about some of the struggles that you see
data scientists facing, and I thought it might be good to start off with talking a little
bit about that.
What are some of those daily struggles?
Yeah, I think all the people who work in the data science capacity or in a data capacity,
sometimes it's just like data engineers that come out of data science or the other way
around.
And then you see people wearing different hats, machine learning engineers, and so on.
So I think all of us that deal with data and that produce outcomes, if it's models or if
it's just like ETL, more structured data, have the number one issue.
I think it's about 30% who quote, who say this, I think I'm quoting here an MLOps community
survey from this week that I just read, about 30% have an issue with finding data when they
do their work.
I mean, that is a huge, huge issue.
And when you have your data locked up in systems, for us as data scientists, it's like, yeah,
let's get me some data.
And then I start modeling.
But that is usually not the way when you build something that is then down the road, has
to run every day, has to be refreshed every day with data, where you have like data validation
tools in there.
We should talk about this too, because they're really key.
That's something we discovered that we need data validation tools.
So I think that's number one, that's the biggest struggle is really access to data.
I think people know how to model.
I think people know how to use tidy models or a Python environment to do that.
So I think that's not really the big struggle.
The second part is really data inconsistency.
And when data is not the way you expect data to be, and then whatever you build starts
choking and then you have to build code around this.
And then you get from the 20% that you put in there to really come out with an ADA and
a model and something that makes sense, then you got to take care of all of that data issues.
So those are probably the two top issues that pretty much all of us in data science and
the machine learning and specifically data engineering affect.
And then there are a lot of downstream issues that are, I feel like, how do we put things
in production?
How do we make it repeatable?
How do we show and share our value that we create?
And we should talk about this too, because I think that is another big issue.
And the third bucket, that's the last bucket I would add, is teams.
How do teams work with each other?
And very often you see a lot of issues.
We can dig into that as well.
Sometimes I'm wondering, because I'm in those teams, is it me?
Then I realized that, no, it's not just, it's everywhere.
I mean, wherever you go, teams sometimes have different goals.
So you have a business team or you have a data team or data science team, and then might
not be aligned with what is the goal that they have to do.
Then sometimes they're not clear about who has what responsibilities.
Is it your responsibility to take care of data?
Is it your responsibility to make sure that what you put out is validated?
Does a data scientist, should a data scientist go into some aspects of infrastructure, which
is a real, real big issue, because who else would do it for you if you're in a small team?
Really big, important topic.
So I think those are the three buckets here, is really getting the clear and right data,
making sure that you can repeat having that same data approach for ETL, what do you do?
Then modeling, I'm not talking too much about, but when you have your model done, putting
things into production, making that reliable.
And last but not least, how do you work with teams?
Those to me are the three biggest issues.
Yeah.
Well, thank you.
I realized when you were first explaining what you're working on and some of the problems
you're solving for marketing and attribution, I am in marketing, but I realized a lot of
us might not be from a marketing background.
And so I know Libby, you had a question that you just asked, want to jump in?
Yeah, you kept mentioning last touch, and I think I know what that means.
I think it means like the credit goes to the person who had the last touch or the interaction
that was the last touch.
But I was wondering if you could explain a little bit about that and why that's a problem
that even needs to be solved.
Yeah.
Love the question.
So when people say love the question, they usually have lousy answers.
I hope I have a good answer for you here.
Last touch, if you think about a customer journey, so what do we do when we search for
something?
So let me give you an example out of my business background here in apartment rentals.
So if you're moving from one location to another, you're looking for an apartment, usually what
happens is that you potentially go on a search site or you type it into Google, or you go
into something we call an internet listing service, like, you know, some that are there
for apartment rentals, or you have social media, you see something on TikTok.
What happens is there's so many different marketing channels, that's what we call a
marketing channel, this is a medium.
And when you as a user click on one of those, you know, pieces of information could also
be organic, a blog post, and then as a next step, say, hey, look, I'm actually really
interested in learning more about this.
The people who put that information out, they want to know, where did you come from?
I mean, I'm sure when you go to a store and people will say to you, hey, how did you learn
about us?
That's literally the last touch question, right?
So because you said, well, a friend told me, so that's the last step.
But maybe you've heard about them before, before a friend or you have noticed them,
but you never really thought about this.
So in marketing, we're really interested in knowing the whole customer journey.
How did you become aware of the brand, of our brand?
Why did you come and see this?
Was there a specific reason?
So we would like to know.
And the reason for that is if we do not only know you're walking into a, let's say, apartment
into at the front leasing desk and say, and somebody asks you and say, well, because a
friend told me, but you could say, hey, look, those are the five things that I learned about
you the last four weeks.
That would be incredible, but nobody does that.
So we have to make sure we can measure that.
And so what we do is basically take the data that we can get out of advertising systems
and individual systems like your website, and then combine that data and then construct
that journey.
So then we see not only the last touch, the last person who told you or gave you the information
to come here, that's what we refer to usually very often as source medium, but we know the
entire journey.
And so why is that entire journey so important?
That is because at the end of the day, that's what brought you here.
And between each step in this entire journey, there's a probability that we as marketers,
that we have affected you.
And we want to know this because it's our marketing dollars going into that.
So let's put it this way.
If there was a YouTube campaign and you might have seen this and you didn't click on anything
at this point, but you just watched it.
And then later on, you walk into that apartment building and visit, we would like to know
if you've seen that.
So that brings another real huge problem in marketing, which is first party data and third
party data and data that we might have or might not have.
We're dealing right now with a world that is without cookies.
So we get less of the data that tracks you, and we have to deal more with data that is
just aggregated.
So what is this aggregated data that I'm talking about?
It's like how many clicks and impressions did a campaign have, a YouTube campaign?
We don't know who clicked this potentially until they go to your website.
But if you just watch it on YouTube and you don't click anything, we just know impressions
and clicks.
So that could have been influential.
And so what we do as a problem, what we have to solve is bring this aggregated data together
with the individual data that we have in an anonymous form from our website and then basically
build an attribution model out of this.
So we build the customer journey, then we use basically the unified attribution model
approach where we take a reward model on one side and combine this with the customer journeys
that come out of Markov chains and then fuse this together.
That's basically how it works.
So to answer your question, if you understand the whole journey, you know how to spend the
money as a marketer wisely, and you're more efficient with your marketing spend, and you
have less wasted spend.
That's the problem we're trying to solve here.
Thank you.
That does sound like an impossible problem, because I can't imagine trying to figure out
how anybody heard of anything, even when you ask them, they might not tell you.
Well, I see Marlene has a great question here.
Marlene, did you want to hop in?
Oh, good.
You caught me in between bites.
Good.
Hi, Martin.
Thanks for joining us this morning.
I'm loving all your answers so far and how your mind works.
I wonder if you can understand the context to this question, and then Jared had a follow-up,
which, Jared, your follow-up is more external to clients, or I should say it's about external
clients.
Mine is about internal clients.
So in the past, and even currently, what happens is I have an idea, I propose a project, I
pitch it maybe to my manager, and my manager, bless him, is like, hey, I'm behind you.
I want to help you pitch this project.
However, I need you to help build the business case for it, right?
And I can think on those terms, but I'm used to the nitty-gritty and thinking about the
data problem, right, not the business problem.
And so I wondered, from your experience, do you handle any of that?
What's your methodology?
If not, who do you hand that off to?
Just kind of how is that handled in your universe, either current experience or past?
I love the question, Maureen.
So I think that is the question that so many of us face, where when somebody comes to us
and has a clear set of problems to solve for them, and they have a clear set of goals,
has a clear set of problems to solve with, and it's already vetted, and you just got
to get to it.
That is an easier case to deal with, because you know, okay, let me know what's the problem,
where's the data, by when do you need something, right?
Well, that's kind of like usually in a more simplified version.
But when you have to get to your point, go out and say, hey, look, I mean, I'm discovering
those issues, and I want to make a case about we have to solve something.
I'll give you an example.
I mean, everybody, all companies deal with a churn problem, a customer churn problem
to a certain degree.
You do really good work, so you might sit in your company and discover, hey, look, we're
losing too many customers, and I would like to help them about, you know, how do we address
this?
Is it that we do something wrong?
So, that's a classical situation where you, as a data scientist, as in an organization
or in a team, have an idea about what to do.
Classically, to me, that has been the situation throughout my career.
I have been a data scientist and a chief product officer, so I always cover both areas, the
problem discovery and the problem solution, and then the technical implementation with
my teams and myself.
So, I come out of a really, you know, of a group of people who discover those problems
in great business cases and then put a solution forward.
That's my daily life, basically.
So, the way to do that is really get very clear about what's the impact that this problem
that you want to solve has.
If the impact is quantifiable and the impact is easy to understand for your stakeholders,
then I think the first thing that I would do is, like, you know, kick off a little bit
of a research project for you.
It doesn't have to be big, about just getting your stakeholders, the audience that potentially
makes your business decision, if you get the time and resources to solve that issue, to
get them actually understand what the problem is.
So, that is the hardest part because you might go into the technical details and how to solve
it, but it's not about the how at this point.
You purely have to focus on why it matters and why it matters to your organization or
your team.
And so, that's usually very high level and you don't spend a lot of time in 20 different
cases.
You just bring up the one, two, three biggest problems.
And then for the stakeholders, they have to make a trade-off decision.
Do we do this or do we do something else?
Do you understand that everything they do is a trade-off decision?
You put it in the context of all the other stuff, right?
So, that's what I do.
If they say, hey, look, churn is good.
We have like maybe keep 99, 95% of our customers.
Then I say, well, maybe it's not the churn part here.
Maybe we have to make sure that customer lifetime value is really the thing that we're going
after.
So, we keep them longer.
We don't even know how long we keep them.
Shouldn't we know this in the first place?
So, when churn happens, then we can address this.
So, that's kind of like the stuff that you have to put forward.
The best method to do this is to have conversations with the business owners.
That's what I do.
I sit down and listen and talk to them very frequently.
Try to understand what the issues are.
And that's the same what we do as a marketing company with our customers.
Maybe today it's not the attribution piece.
Maybe today it's like they have a competitor across the street.
And then we would like to understand what it is.
And once we understand this and contextualize the problem, that's really the most important
thing.
And then help them make a trade-off decision, second most important thing.
Then you have basically the first step done.
And then the rest follows what you usually do.
It's like do your work, get your data, do your EDA, put forward with whatever comes
out of your work.
And then basically do your presentation in a way that if you have a one-off research
project that gives the answer to a certain problem.
I hope that kind of answers your question, Marlene.
Very much.
There's some great nuggets of wisdom in there.
So I appreciate that response.
I'm going to digest that a bit because it takes me a minute.
I'm coffee-free for five months.
My brain is not happy.
I'm going to hand it off to Jared, who had a similar question.
But I think his was more like external client-facing.
So Jared, if you're on, if you want to hop in, I appreciate it.
Yeah, can you guys hear me okay?
Yeah, there we go.
Yeah, so all great points.
And kind of like Marlene, I'm digesting.
But I really am thinking from a standpoint of if you are forward-facing out to a client
or trying to give them a pitch or a use case to secure business or really just provide
that service of having to explain to them or maybe, I don't want to say dummy down,
but provide a high-level idea to them in order for them to agree or for it to move forward.
Can you kind of walk me through your thought process when you approach a client?
I mean, I know it may be, it's going to be different for each person,
but kind of the overall idea when you go into that?
Oh, absolutely.
Love the question, Jared.
So out of my experience, I deal a lot with investors too.
So I think one of the toughest pieces when you go to a venture capitalist
and make a case for getting $10 million, right?
That's a whole lot of money for them to spend.
So your case has to be really, really, really good.
So it's not just like, oh, let's have a conversation, but it goes beyond,
let's say, somebody, you know, willing to put that much money into an idea.
And the same thing goes, is valid for clients.
When we speak with clients, I also hear conversion logics.
So I think to me, it really breaks down, Jared, into three aspects that I follow.
Number one is I always open my conversations with framing the situation about who we are,
who I am, who the organization is, so they know where I'm coming from, right?
So they know, oh, yeah, this person comes out of this direction.
So everybody else you're speaking with can contextualize you and know what to ask you
and make sure that you're on the same page.
The second piece, and that very first, usually in an investor presentation,
when you go through your startup, it's the same like with the client.
It's like you present yourself, say, we are conversion logics.
This is what we do, and that's what people love about us.
And these are the problems we solve.
So you've got to break it down.
And that's the same thing in a data science environment.
If you provide data science services for anyone out there, you know,
it's really being very important to understand, you know, what you exactly do
and what the problem is that you solve.
So I think that's just like setting the stage so people know when to communicate with you
about what it is.
Otherwise, you might not, you know, communicate on the same level
and have different expectations.
So really get the expectations right is the first thing.
And when we talk to clients in marketing, for us as conversion logics,
typical approach is, hey, look, we are here in this industry as apartment marketers.
We've been doing this for a while.
And here's what, you know, the problems we solve.
And then you pause here and see, ideally, you have done your homework
and those problems match their homework.
And then you can listen to them.
Next step is give the other side a chance to weigh in.
So the main approach that I would – the main way I would describe that approach
is consulting or consulting.
It's not selling.
It's really being more – you being the doctor who listens to somebody's issue.
And then you're trying to understand very good, careful listening.
Let everybody come.
And then you have to go to the next step.
When they have shared their information, then you got to – you have to aggregate it.
You have to reduce complexity.
If you don't reduce complexity in that conversation,
if you create more complexity, you lost it.
It's as simple as that.
If you just go into one area and you blow that up technically, oh, we could do this.
People will not know about what this means, what you're saying.
They have no idea.
Some of them.
Some of them do.
But you got to reduce complexity.
So you said what you do.
You listen to what their problem is.
And then you got to bring this together and say, oh, I see.
You have an issue here that you – for example, you have – in our case,
your apartment occupancy rates are not 95%.
And for some buildings in a highly competitive environment, let's say Chicago.
So we can help with that.
And then we go forward and say, confirm that this is the problem.
Reduce complexity.
Focus on one or two things.
And then you say, hey, classically, that's where really trust comes in now
because somebody is listening to you.
And it's really a decision theory challenge here.
It's like they got to learn to understand that we talk about the right thing.
Then they got to give you credit, that you have credibility.
That's now after you locked in into here's the problem that we can –
that you said you have and we can help you with.
Now you bring credibility.
Now it's about the time, not before.
At this point, you say, hey, look, this is what we have done for others.
And then people understand, oh, same problem.
You have done this.
And then at the very end, you can talk about how do we go about this.
But that's usually only 10% of the conversation.
And then it's, again, it's like how do we move forward.
That's typically my approach too.
Thank you.
I'm feeling so much energy from the chat today.
And I love to see this lone data scientist wolf pack forming in the chat here as well.
I want to make sure I get to some of the Slido questions people have asked anonymously too.
And one was can you talk about how your company handles things like A-B testing
and causality, interested in tools and processes?
Yeah, yeah, absolutely.
So I think we see a big change to, well, not a big change,
but we see a change to causal analysis and causal inference and so on.
And classically, we did a lot of A-B testing.
Our organizations did a lot of A-B testing.
And I do think that on the A-B testing side, it's a classic method.
As long as you don't violate the peaking problem.
We all know what we're talking about in A-B testing.
You do it right.
And I think for A-B testing in general, it's still a common practice.
I think you need data scientists or very, very knowledgeable data analysts to get it right.
I'm not a big fan of those super automated A-B testing tools where, you know,
you put something forward, you look at what's happening,
you peek the heck out of what's happening here.
This is not the way to do it.
So I think classically in that situation,
what you need is somebody who understands how to go about A-B testing and do it right
and then have the patients to wait until the data, the test is done,
and then review the test to really see if there's any significance or not.
So that's one thing.
And I think that's good, and we're doing this, and I think agencies should be doing this.
Causal analysis and causal inference, I feel like, is a really, really interesting approach.
I personally think this allows us to do a whole lot more with understanding, you know,
where without an A-B test where over time series, over a certain amount of time,
things have happened.
We're just right now on our side at ConversionLogix getting into causal inference
and causal analysis.
In my last probably two to three years, it was a mainstay.
I think most agencies today should probably have a plan for how to, you know,
leverage causal inference and causal analysis.
You can do it in R.
You can do it in Python.
I think one of my favorites, I have it right here.
I'm going to share this with you.
I don't know if my blurry screen.
One of the great books is by Martin Hoover, you know, so it's like causal analysis.
You can see it here.
That's one of the really, really good ones that I recommend.
And Martin puts out a really good theoretical context about how to conduct causal analysis.
So that is my recommended read for people who have not gone into this.
And then I think, you know, the bigger conversation is really, you know,
goes into Bayesian statistics and how do you leverage potentially frameworks that are
on the Python side, some really good ones.
I think, what is it, like PyMCS out of Berlin and Germany and so on.
So I think there are other aspects.
So I think that's more of a tooling part than what do you pick down the road.
Thank you.
Amrit, I see you had a question.
Yeah, this was about you mentioning, Martin, you were mentioning about CLV,
customer lifetime value.
And I have recently been working on similar problems.
And I've been reading a book by Peter Feder.
He's a Wharton professor.
And I've heard a lot about him thinking that he's known to be working on CLV problems.
So I was just curious, what have some of your learnings been while like solving problems
for your clients or teams?
Yeah, lovely question.
So yeah, Peter Feder is a Wharton professor for those.
He has published a couple of really, really great books as well.
He puts forward his own method and principle about what metrics to follow in an organization.
And I think that's where you're coming from.
So Amrit, I feel like Peter Feder is a really, really good approach.
He wrote with a co-author a book about how to implement it.
I don't know the name of the book anymore, but I think I do have it.
And I think what you need is exactly something like what Peter Feder put forward is like
a good approach that us as data scientists can implement.
So he's really straightforward with what values to take, how to calculate those things,
and then puts this in a context that makes sense.
If you feel like other VCs out there, not that Peter Feder is a VC, but VCs out there
have their own systems about how do you calculate customer lifetime value and payback periods
and so on.
So now we're going into a more financial modeling part, right?
And I feel like really what you pick there, I think that's is like make sure they don't
just go for what I would not do is like get into a book of what are good marketing metrics
and then just one formula that will not really help you to tell the story because that will
get you a value that is potentially without context.
When you create those values or those KPIs for an organization or a team, you need to
understand the context of what is that going to tell you, right?
What is the next?
How do we put this in context?
And so custom lifetime value for those who are hearing this term for the first time,
it's really about an approach to understand what's the value for your customer here in
your organization that you have acquired.
And that tells you what to do, how to sell, how to market, how to retain that customer
and how to get new customers because there's a limited lifetime potentially for that.
And what's the dollar amount behind that customer?
So that's what it's really all about.
And that gives you in the context of your business, you know, a better planning basis.
So to me, if I would be in an organization, here's the tip that I would give you.
I would sit down with my finance team.
If you have a FP&A team, financial planning and analysis team, they are all over that.
FP&A, if you have this in your organization, you sit down with them as a data scientist
and say, you know, how do we actually get, what are your challenges?
That goes back to Marlene, your question internally earlier connecting back to that.
So you have that team, finance team, and they have a sub-team called FP&A,
financial planning and analysis.
They do CLV calculations.
And you say, hey, look, I mean, I know you might do this in Excel or whatever,
in Google Sheets.
We can do this potentially.
I can help you here.
And so I think you want them to explain to you what their approach is.
Do they follow a Peter Fader approach or something else?
And then you can actually follow up on really the metrics, make sure you have the data
and help them.
And to me, help always looks like the best way is to show something of value.
Classically, what I do is I put forward a shiny app that I share and connect
and, you know, just model something very quickly.
And usually what happens is people get excited when they see that.
Yeah, that's good.
I think I had a takeaway that I need to reach out to the FP&A team and my company.
Exactly.
Don't do it alone because you go down potentially a rabbit hole of just,
like, metrics.
What I'm saying is, like, there's a reality in your organization.
If you have a big organization like 200 people, most likely you have somebody
in finance who actually does the FP&A role.
And then you talk to that person and then you say, hey, look,
what's your biggest challenge?
And that's basically then just listening.
And then we go back to what we said earlier, kind of make sure that you can
reduce complexity again.
Say, ah, it's all about CLV.
That's your biggest challenge.
And your biggest challenge is you might not have the data or you don't know how
to calculate it.
And then you come in and say, look, I can help you with this.
Let's do a project, kick off a test together with that.
You don't have to make it really official.
So that's the secret here.
Don't ask sometimes for too many permissions because you might not get them.
Just do this as a side project.
And if you have something like Connect where we as data scientists can show
value just, like, immediately, this is the best part of it because you just put
something together and your job is to really then get this person excited and
help them to do more with their time.
So the whole company benefits from your effort and your finance person's effort
as well.
Thank you so much.
Thank you, Martin.
You're welcome.
You know, we have a Slido question that is sort of in this vein of helping people
spark ideas and understanding what's possible.
And it says, I'm a data scientist with little experience of AI.
What's the best way to get a broad understanding of AI to help spark ideas as
to how I can apply it at work?
Best question ever because what we're doing here is the best way to do it.
Join a community.
That's literally the answer.
That is the answer.
Honestly, I could not give you a better answer to that.
I'm a member of multiple communities.
I'm a member of the Machine Learning Hangout in Seattle, ML Ops community,
the Data Science Hangout that Rachel started many, many years ago,
which is fantastic.
So to me, literally what you should be, if you have time to join those meetings,
go and participate in those in communities.
Go on to the Slack channels.
If you have a local meetup, I mean, go to the local meetup.
I mean, nothing beats meeting people, explaining what you're doing,
and understanding what they're doing.
So it really comes down to two things.
Thing number one is that you can understand that you're not the only one
dealing with an issue and everybody is learning.
I mean, we're all learning, continuously learning.
You're not the only one who is learning.
I would bet out of the 130 people, 20 people here,
there would be only a handful saying, oh, I know everything.
I don't need to learn anymore.
So that's why people go there.
So to me, that's exactly it.
Be clear about how much you know and how much you don't know.
And now the bigger context is how do you approach people there?
I feel like when they have a talk, then go there and then get to know
some other people, ask you questions, and then they will tell you what
they're doing, and then you learn a whole lot.
I remember just one example when Generative AI came around,
and I was in Seattle, and a ton of people said, oh,
let's go to those meetups.
People didn't really know what racks are and so on and so on
and all this stuff, retrieving an augmented system.
That's when people said, this is what I do.
Some brought example applications that they had running on the machines,
and then they said, here's my repository, and then you can go there
and look at the code.
So that's really that exchange that helps you going
and helps with learning.
Thank you so much.
I see people are starting to share some of their local meetups
in the chat as well, so I encourage you to share that there.
I see, Sol, you had a question a little bit earlier about Shiny.
Do you want to jump in here?
Yeah, I just wasn't sure how – I haven't used Shiny in a long time,
but I wasn't sure how people were sharing it.
I remember when I published it, it's on my local host URL,
but if I don't have Posit at this particular company,
I forget how to share it independent of me.
So it's like, hey, here's a tool for finance use, upload Excel, et cetera.
I just don't know about the modern stack.
Yeah.
Now, I think that is – so I think there are a couple of solutions
for that issue.
Posit has a hosted environment where you can actually –
I don't know if it's for free.
There was a free portion there in the past,
and I don't know what the URL is.
Was it shinyapps.io, I think, or something like this?
Probably somebody.
Shinyapps.io, and now there's Connect Cloud as well.
Yeah, so I think I would go hosted, Sol, first,
and I would set up my own account there,
and you can actually then from your ID, you can use RStudio.
I don't know if Positron does it now.
I haven't tested Positron on that.
But in RStudio, when you publish, you can connect to any target,
and the hosted service that Posit offers is such a target.
That's, to me, the easiest way, and you don't need to deal with infrastructure,
which is really what your whole question is all about.
It's like, how do I manage infrastructure when I just want to share something?
I'm not a DevOps engineer.
I'm a data scientist.
That's what that problem is that you're talking about.
And I think, thank God you asked that question
because that's our daily problem to deal with is infrastructure, infrastructure.
So there are two stages to infrastructure.
Let's put it this way.
If you have time, if you have a DevOps engineer around you,
well, you can go and look into Docker-based solutions
and spin up things on that side.
You know, there's definitely a way to do that,
and you can host this as well on Cloud Run and Google
or wherever else you want to do that.
So that works.
There's some limitations with that.
If you do business data, you probably don't have authentication issues.
You have authentication issues until you might connect something
with Firebase and other servers on Google's side,
which I developed for authentication people.
But it takes so much time out of you, quite frankly,
that you want to go and rather make the case and say,
hey, team, that's what I did in my organization.
Let's get Connect.
And we have Connect running on GCP, and it does what it needs to do.
And I feel like now you would have to make a case here.
First, you go to Posit's public service and create an account,
and then you have authentication, all of that stuff taken care of.
You don't need to do anything.
Infrastructure check.
And once you grow and have shown this and people like this,
you can run your own Connect environment on GCP,
and it's super easy to set up.
I mean, honestly, I can do it.
So it's not that difficult to get all of this stuff going.
So that's typically the way that I would suggest.
If you don't want to go the way to use the Shiny app,
then there's an easier way.
You can use Quarto, and you can use interactive Quarto documents as well,
which is really a very cool way to showcase something.
So that runs a new machine.
You don't need to host anything.
And then we can also go to Shiny Live and WebR in a second.
But Quarto is a really good markdown approach of creating a document,
having some basic interactivity in there.
And I think that's probably the easiest way now that I think.
So I would do Quarto first.
If you're on to developing an app with more interactivity,
more app-based than a markdown,
then you go to Posit and put it on their servers.
And if you're really serious about that, that has business cases funded,
then go and get Connect.
Okay. Thank you so much.
Wonderful. Thank you.
Thank you.
I guess while we're talking about Connect, Martin,
would you be able to tell us a little bit more about one of your team's use
cases and how you're sharing to Connect and maybe like what is it that
that app or model is solving?
Yeah, absolutely.
Absolutely.
So when we started this session here,
I was quoting the number one issue on the data side,
remove the three buckets, data, putting in production,
having data consistently good, know where it is, use case number one,
putting stuff into production, use case number two.
And then we talk about the teams on the other side.
Let's remove the teams, go to use case one, which is where's my data?
Typically use case for us is using pins, pins with Connect.
I think there's no better solution.
Yes.
There are probably more other solutions out there, but pins is great.
You can have actually a repository that understands where your data sets
are. It's versioned.
It can be centralized on Connect as well.
You can actually put in local machines as well.
You only connect to pins,
but that's a typical use case where how we use Connect is when we share
data. You have controls over who can see it, who cannot see it.
And then you have versioning that comes with it.
To me reduces 30% of the first problem we talked about.
It's just worth it out of the box. So good.
Second use case is now we talk a little bit about something that once you
did your data, you run your tidy models or whatever else,
or you run your scikit-learn stuff and you have everything going and you
might have a shiny app or streaming app or you name it,
whatever you want to run there.
It's really sharing and it's the production case.
Production cases have two sides.
We're going to be very clear about not everything you do is an MLOps case
and you have to build an enterprise application.
That's kind of like where Marlene, you were saying earlier,
what's my internal audience's approach, my external audience approach.
Internal to me,
I feel like it's really a fantastic tool to put a quarter document forward or
shiny app forward on Connect. External is a little different because when you,
or if you build a tool that allows, you know,
to be used in another workflow from another team,
you can use Connect in that context too. We do this.
We do this here at ConversionLogix.
So the use case, Rachel, you asked about is we do,
we build customer journeys. That has little to do with attribution.
That's a whole lot of data that pulls data from BigQuery,
pulls it into our systems. We can do this in single machines.
We can do this in the cluster environment with Spark AR and so on.
So you can do this in different ways, how you deal with a lot of data.
And then actually you can crunch those numbers.
Now, putting it forward to share it, you,
when you run, you know, your models and test your models,
there's a super great framework that's called Vetiver.
That is from Julia and the R version,
at least I think is Julia wrote this and the Posit team.
And that is another use case where you can store Vetiver models on Connect.
So that's the use case we use.
So we understand what happens to the models there.
So I use everything, the whole bandwidth from the very beginning,
to the very end and then share things.
And so those are two typical use cases.
So more data science focused, more fast, Vetiver is great.
Gives you a good understanding about what happens with your models.
And then on the data ETL side, pins, and then running data workloads as well.
I'm not talking too much about modeling, as we all know.
I think we all know how modeling works and how we can use tiny models in there.
Thank you.
You know, we have a couple of other great Slido questions.
And one is, I hope we haven't asked this before,
how to measure the success of a channel and compare it to the success of a copy?
Okay, cool. I love that one.
So that's a really tricky question because usually it's not like the success of one channel,
but the success of your campaign in marketing.
So if you have a campaign that uses multiple channels, right?
To me, classically what we have done as marketers, we look at what's our impression share,
what's our clicks and click-through rates.
And if you have some kind of measurement on conversion, you look at that.
So that's the classic thing that we do, right?
So we look at each channel separately.
Sometimes we don't understand how they connect together.
That's what we're working on here at ConversionLogix.
How do they support each other?
And so the first thing you would do is, like, look at your channel performance.
So what you got to do is, like, do you get impressions?
Do you get clicks?
Do those clicks convert?
So is there at least in the first step, is there a key event in Google Analytics?
That's how you would do that.
You'd tag this as a key event, a conversion, and then you see if that happens.
So that data, you basically run across all of your channels.
So now how do you do that?
That's the key question.
You can use platforms that aggregate that for you, like TapClicks and others.
They go out and reach out to your AdWords account, to your Meta account.
I mean, you name it, and they put data into their system.
So there are a ton of those services out there.
Me personally, I would like to have everything in BigQuery.
That's where I put it.
So now with GA4, Google Analytics 4, you get for free BigQuery import function.
So when you go into your GA4 account, you can actually set up that up to 1 million events a month,
get copied into a BigQuery account.
So what is BigQuery first?
BigQuery is a data warehouse in Google, so it's like a nested data structure,
not just like flat, like classically what we know from CSV files, but it's nested.
So it's very efficient for storing, uses SQL to query.
You don't need to worry about this because we have Deployer,
which can do all of that cool stuff, so we don't need to learn SQL.
So the thing that we do here is literally get the data in there
and then basically pull the data out and analyze.
So now the question, how do I look at this?
I compare, first of all.
I compare all the stats across all of the channels.
Once I connect Deployer to BigQuery and pull this all in and do the typical modeling that I do,
it's like compare things based on impressions, clicks, click-throughs, and conversions.
That's number one.
You don't have to have any other software.
You can do this with your tools that you have.
You might want to use an aggregator to pull all of the data.
You connect your accounts to that aggregator and like tactics and others,
they push it in BigQuery for you automatically,
and then you can actually use Google Analytics with that data and you join the data.
So that is how you do this.
What the metrics are, we talked about a little bit.
You get to impressions, clicks, conversions, and then CTRs,
and then you can put budget on top of that,
and if you contextualize everything that you have achieved in the context of budget,
you get a very simple method but a working method for understanding your marketing performance.
Thank you, Martin.
So I can't believe how fast our time is going by here.
I'm going to ask you more questions.
But when you were just describing how you're using Vetiver and TinyModels,
I think there was a Slido question that came in,
and I was actually going to ask if you could expand a little bit on this as well
because all of us might not be using Vetiver yet,
and I was just curious how you are using it.
Yeah, so I think there are two sides to it.
So Vetiver to me is really a, you know, once you build your model and you put it out,
you can host it, and you have the versioning,
and you get basically taken care of with Connect with Vetiver data being there and being versioned.
To me, the most important part about Vetiver is, like, the known data that went into my model
and how does my model react to unseen data.
I mean, that's literally what you want to compare, and that's the general use cases for Vetiver.
That's a classical, you can say, it's an MLOps use case.
Yes, I think it's a classical MLOps use case.
That is the straightforward use case.
There are other ways to go about this too.
There's a lot of, I mean, basically, let's remove all the products that do stuff.
Let's look at what is it that you want to see.
What you want to see is, like, if your model produces an inference
and produces predictions with data that it hasn't seen,
is it behaving correctly, or are there aspects of drift, data drift, model drift, and so on,
which basically means are there things happening to data that your model was not trained for, right?
And therefore, what your model does is not what you want it to do.
And so you need to know when that happens.
And therefore, we aggregate data that comes out of the prediction, out of the inference,
and look at metrics that basically says, well, this has a different distribution now, and so on.
Things are changing.
Once we detect that, most likely something has changed.
And for you as a data scientist, at that point, you got to go back and say,
well, let's take new data and retrain the model.
And really what it gets you to do is, the use case number one,
make sure that the model you produce is a good model for the data it sees, because things can change.
One example, I can't even remember pre-COVID time, but now I do.
Pre-COVID was we collected data, and then we got into COVID in 2020,
and all of a sudden the environment changed.
And I can tell you, because I was doing data science machine learning at the time,
most of our models failed at that point.
They just didn't work anymore, because behavior completely changed.
In marketing, it was really traumatic, traumatic.
I mean, everything was different, right?
There was no more in-person, no more marketing methods that worked for you walk into a store or something.
Everything was shifting.
People were not spending money whatsoever.
People didn't know about it.
We had to rethink everything.
Here's where Vetiver comes into play.
When you have your models hosted and they detect that something is, or Vetiver detects, the model doesn't detect this,
the systems that ML Ops, those ML Ops systems detect that things are changing,
that's for you the first hint to go back and really go to your modeling part and take the new data and compare
and start understanding what is different and why things are different.
And the second thing is, like, you got to think about why it's different.
Did anything change?
Are you reaching out to different people?
Has something happened, like COVID, or other things happening?
That's the number one use case for that.
I know we're getting close to the top of the hour, but that is my number one use case for anything ML Ops,
that you want to have an accurate model.
And there's a legal side to that, too.
You want to make sure your model is also compliant.
If you're in a regulated market, like real estate marketing has Fair Housing Act,
there are other markets with regulations.
You got to make sure that your model is compliant,
and those are some of the ways that you can make sure there's model compliance.
Thank you.
I will send you this chat, Martin,
but I hope you're seeing the love for the Hangout today that everybody is sharing in the chat.
We have one or two minutes left here,
so let me try and throw this career advice question that I always love to ask.
Is there a memorable piece of career advice that you've either received
or given others that you'd like to share with us?
Oh, I love this question.
Don't really think if you don't know anything that you cannot get there.
You can get there.
Absolutely.
Believe in yourself.
Yeah, we all have questions.
We all have questions.
I mean, it's really about how you deal with who can help you.
Find a mentor.
That's really the one thing.
People can actually take you by the hand where you are at the moment
and then pay back to the community.
So that is literally my number one is, like, don't doubt yourself.
If you don't know, ask somebody.
Get some help and pay back.
You know, give interns, if you have a chance,
give interns a chance to work in your organization.
Take a data intern, a data scientist intern, somebody,
give them a chance to work on real problems.
That's how they learn.
That's how we actually continue to be this beautiful community that we are.
Thank you so much, Martin.
I love that.
This has been such a fun conversation today.
I really appreciate all of the questions you all put into the chat
and can't wait to go back through and reread everything
and all the resources shared there, too.
Thank you so much, Martin, for spending time with us.
It was exciting, fun to be here, team.
I love all the questions.
I got to watch this again
and read through all the comments and questions.
And absolutely, we in the community, we can reach out and ask each other.
I'm happy to help if there's any support needed.
I love this community.
Thank you for having me.
Thank you.
And I just want to let everybody know, as we go this week,
next week Marco Gorelli is going to be joining us as the featured leader,
and Marco is a core dev of pandas and polars.
So it might be another fun one to share with your team.
But thank you all so much.
Have a great rest of the day.